these protesters have gathered in Tokyo
ahead of the G7 foreign ministers
meeting that's taking place over the
next 2 days they say the group's failure
to condemn Israel's bombardment of Gaza
has made it complicit in the deaths of
civilians must stop killing people
please stop the massacre it has been so
many weeks since the genocide has
started and G7 hasn't been doing
anything to stop it the war is set to
dominate the agenda some s States
including the US UK and Germany have
thrown their full support behind Israel
while Japan that holds this year's
presidency is taking a more cautious
approach foreign minister Yoko kakawa
condemned hamas's actions on October 7
as terrorism but is also urging Israel
to agree to a humanitarian
cause the Improvement of the
humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip
is the highest priority to that end
humanitarian support and humanitarian
pauses and ensuring humanitarian access
is necessary Canadian and French
officials have shared similar sentiments
on his way from Tura US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin mentioned
different priorities we remain very
focused on the hostages held by Hamas
including Americans in making sure we're
doing everything possible to bring them
home the split is a departure from the
united front the G7 presented on
Russia's invasion of Ukraine and what
the group Des red as China's economic
coercion Yoko kamikawa recently returned
from the Middle East where she met
Israeli Palestinian and Jordanian
officials Japan Imports 90% of its crude
oil from Arab countries and is worried
any escalation of conflict in the region
could spark an energy crisis at home
it's also concerned Tokyo's reputation
among those who support Palestine is
suffering irreversible damage this G7
foreign ministers meeting is not only a
test of unity for the grouping it's also
a test for Tokyo its ability to get the
members on the same page to call for a
humanitarian pause this will reveal the
power of its leadership or its limits
Katrina U aler
Tokyo make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer